I AM OPEN TO WORK FROM HOME. ONLY WEEKENDS JOB
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
Oloko is a civil/structural engineer with broad experience in the consulting and construction industry. He has a sound understanding of structural behaviors and soil-structure interaction. He is highly skilled in structural scheme development, finite element analysis, design of structures, construction supervision and project management. Oloko has been responsible for the start to finish process of design and construction of various residential, institutional and commercial structures. His design portfolio covers the use of materials such as concrete, steel and other suitable construction materials. He has appreciable knowledge in assessment of existing structures, proffering acceptable solution for retrofit works and asset management. He has adequate understanding of the use of Building Information Modelling (BIM) on projects.


key skills & Proficiencies

Key Skills:
      Communication & Liaison
      Contractor & Engineering Management
      Building Information Modeling (BIM)
      Problem Solving & Risk Analysis
      Process Implementation 
      Structural Assessments
      Technical Reporting & Presentations
      Budget Management
      Working Under Pressure & To Targets
      Project / Construction Management
      Building Compliance and Regulatory Knowledge
      Health & Safety Regulations

Software Proficiencies: 
      PROKON
      ORION
      SAFE
      CSC FASTRAK Structural Designer
      AutoCAD
      STAAD.Pro
      Revit
      TEDDS
      TEKLA STRUCTURAL DESIGNER

Experience


STRUCTURAL ENGINEER AT [CK21 LTD, Newcastle, UK] February 2022- March 2023 

      Structural analysis and design for the proposed remodeling of Wallsend Boys Club. A steel portal framed structures over an existing a bungalow on a piled and raft foundation, as part of the scheme is to have additional first floor of composite steel deck on existing load-bearing wall and other part of the floor on new steel beams and columns. Creating markup loads/connection loads on steelwork drawings for fabricator.
      Structural analysis and design of veterinary referral center, bolden vet in south Tyneside. An office spaces partitions with timber stud walls and a timber deck and joists flooring as lid cover. The timbers are structural designed and sized for the lids and stud wall to withstand plants & equipment s and other dead loads.
      Dane Factory building structural design and analysis of all the structural steel works and reinforced concrete foundations. A steel portal framed building with an overhead 5tons crane which spans 20mtrs supported off the portal columns leg running across the length of 46mtrs. The foundation is partly retaining wall design, ground bearing slab and pad footings.
      Ultra-North/Manchester metroplex structural assessment of existing roof steelworks to support cable trays and other containments in the roof structure, first floor precast floor, steel beams, columns assessment to determine the ability to support data equipment loadings, new foundation design for a generator and condenser, Unistrut/steel pipe bridge for cable containment design and analysis and others. Connection design for new steelwork installation and Submitting calculations sheet to Ove Arup to check.
      Persimmon homes in Birtley steel lintels, posts and padstone design and analysis and submitting calculations to NHBC for approvals various types of houses.
      Temporary works design such as hoist/crane platform, timber ramp, scaffolds support system, stud wall support for gable wall removal, timber hoarding etc. for Bowmer and Kirkland
      Reciprocating compressor raft foundation structural design for DVN 
      Structural design assessment and repair solution for walker gate brickwork-retaining-wall
      Washington AFC facilities upgrade structural design of new timber and beam support to existing timber trusses to creates more space for training and meeting rooms.
      Structural design of building remodeling/refurbishment of chanty drive home
      Estimating and calculating of wall load run to analyzed and designed of strip foundation of building
      PV Solar Panel roof assessment report to proof viability of roofing for a renewable energy for Northumberland estates buildings and others.
      Unreinforced and reinforced Mansory retaining wall design for story homes.
      3D steelwork modelling, structural design and analysis of  Northumberland Estate Back worth- a three story Integrated Frailty Hub development that brings together health, care and housing services
      Cavity and unreinforced Mansory retaining wall Story home structural design with sketches.
      Story homes retaining cavity wall design of substructure foundation of residential building.
      Walkergate retaining/fence wall structural assessment and remedial structural design hand calculations with markup sketches and notes on remedial works to be carried out.
      Bespoke stair visual appraisal survey and report writing for central south gate, Newcastle
      Load assessment of level1 Slab of Lynemouth Power Silo for Concrete Lining of the internal Flue
      Design of Acoustic fence for Seaham Gardens 
      PoT Biomass Silo Plate Lifting Cable design and arrangement for Lynemouth Power
      Level1 slab assessment of silo biomass power plant for additional lining loads on brick wall flues damaged portion.
      Temporary work design to access basement wall for ground floor removal and replacement of worswick chambers at Pilgrimage Street, Newcastle.
      Wind loads assessment on worswick chambers building at Newcastle.
      Structural design for alteration, conversion and expansion of Brokenheugh Lodge & Orchard Barn building in Haydon Bridge.
      Production of Structural survey reports for the purpose of repairs, 






Senior Structural Engineer | Fatyville & Fatolk Nigeria Ltd. | April 2015   October 2021
      Oversaw the structural design and management for two block, six story Southern Shores residential building project.
      Preparation of method statement of works for concrete, reinforcement, surveying, crush stone, formwork and false work and several others 
      Completed detailed analysis and piled raft foundation designs, as well as modelled, analyzed and designed the columns, beams and slabs for sufficient building support.
      Utilized AutoCAD to prepare detailed civil / structural engineering drawings for the project.
      Responsible for completing accurate bending schedules and material estimations for budgets.
      Oversaw the project management of a sufficient engineering team to deliver a safe and quality delivery of the project within the timescales.
      Enforced health and safety and building regulatory requirements in line with national legislation, British standards and Eurocodes.
      Developed material specifications for the development construction and completed in-depth testing on the materials to include compressive tests on concrete and tensile yield strength tests on steel reinforcements.
      Liaising with the development clients and the Site Manager on a regular basis and attended detailed site meetings to discuss concerns, development plans and technical drawings.
      Responsible for the safe structural design and construction of a five-story hotel development to include a swimming pool, underground water treatment plant, sewage treatment plant and other ancillary buildings and external works.
      Liaised with architects, builders and other engineers on site, as well as the Site Manager and the client to discuss the requirements of the building and ensure sufficient structural measurements are in place whilst building a rapport at all levels.
      Designed detailed structural drawings and completed Building Information Modelling (BIM) for the project. 
      Completed project specifications and detailed reporting in order to forecast budget spend for the project.
      Oversaw a team of Engineers to deliver the project in line with building regulations and client timescales.

SENIOR CIVIL ENGINEER [Folad Construction & Engineers Limited] July, 2013----March, 2015

       preparation of structural briefs, scope of works

       Undertaking independent studies and analysis and preparing recommendations and conclusions for formal review of projects
       Liaison with clients, contractors, design team and third parties
       Offer support and guidance to more junior members of the team
      Effectively manage own time which may be necessary if allocated to more than one project
       Structural design using design software packages
       Produce completed outline design and detailed design works information
       Working with CAD Technicians to produce relevant structural information. Also assist in preparing CAD drawings from time to time
       Ensure that contractual specifications, codes, and standards are followed in project execution in accordance with contractual, legislative, regulatory company and commercial requirements
       Inputs into methods of fabrication, transportation, construction and installation
       Responsible for all structural design work in a given project
       Provide technical support to site team during execution phase of the project.

 Structural Engineer | Sdem Erectors Nigeria Ltd. | 12th March, 2012---24th June, 2013

      Handled all Structural analysis and design support check for all Fabricated steelworks members in-house 
      PROJECT ENGINEER ON PROCUREMENT, FABRICATION AND ERECTION OF STEELWORK OF 600TONS FOR NIGERIA SECURITY PRINTNG AND MINTING, ABUJA. FACTORY LINE.
      
      MANAGING THE STRUCTURAL CONSULTANT, REVIEWING THE WORKSHOP DRAWINGS, CO-ORDINATING AND SUPERVISING THE ACTIVITIES IN THE FABRICATION YARD AND THE ERECTION SITE. ENSURING ALL SHOP DETAILS FOR THE STEEL MEMBERS FABRICATION ARE OKAY.
      Structural safety assessment and estimation of all fabricated steelwork components
      Material take-off of about 600tons steelwork members
      Responsible for putting engineering, procurements and construction documents up for bids
      Liaising with workshop and office to ensure smooth fabrication and erection works 
      Checking of fabrication & Erection drawings and making corrections on drawings in the workshop with little or inadequate information.
       Liaising with the development clients and the Site Manager on a regular basis and attended detailed site meetings to discuss concerns, development plans and technical drawings

previous experience
Civil Engineer | Concept Projet Limited | 2002   2010 




education & Training

Liverpool John Moores University
      MSc in Civil Engineering in view

Lagos State Polytechnic
      Higher National Diploma (HND) in Civil Engineering
      Ordinary National Diploma (OND) in Civil Engineering 

 Training Courses:
      AutoCAD
      Microsoft Word, Excel & Project
      AutoCAD Structural Detailing
      TEDDS
      TEKLA STRUCTUTRAL DESIGNER
      Revit
      ORION
      FASTRAK
      Structural Design & Analysis for all Reinforced Concrete, Steelwork & Foundation Engineering

references